Improve event page documentation and examples (#28411)
mdn/content: files/en-us/mozilla/add-ons/webextensions/background_scripts/index.md

### React to listeners

Listeners exist to trigger functionality once an event has fired. To react to an event, structure the desired reaction inside of the listener event.

> Rely on the event details for the context. Failing to use the tabId and/or frameId of an event may result in calling an extension API method on the wrong target.

Reviewer: Can it sometimes work if you don't use `tabId` or `frameId` of an event? Otherwise, let's be certain
```suggestion
Rely on the event details for the context. Failing to use the `tabId` or `frameId` of an event results in calling an extension API method on the wrong target.
```

Author: It's context-dependent. Some events, APIs or use cases are independent of the tabId or frameId. Examples of scenarios:

- tabId and frameId relevant: "open current document in new tab".
- tabId relevant, frameId not: "move tab to new window"
- tabId and frameId not relevant: "get total tab count"

Reviewer 2: Nit: how about

> Rely on the event details **to determine the right tab and frame ids**. Failing to use the **right** ... 

(the parts in **bold** are the additions I'm proposing).

it may be just me, but **context** on its own wasn't immediately making clear to me what the note was trying to highlight for me.

Author: ```suggestion
When responding to events in the context of a specific tab or frame, use the `tabId` and `frameId` from the event details instead of relying on the "current tab". Specifying the target explicitly ensures that your extension does not unexpectedly invoke an extension API on the wrong target when the "current tab" changes while waking up the event page.
```

I've rewritten the sentence to be more explanatory. It's more words, but probably clearer than what was there before.

> When responding to events in the context of a specific tab or frame, use the `tabId` and `frameId` from the event details instead of relying on the "current tab". Specifying the target explicitly ensures that your extension does not unexpectedly invoke an extension API on the wrong target when the "current tab" changes while waking up the event page.

Reviewer: I think we can retain the meaning with slightly fewer words
```suggestion
When responding to events in a specific tab or frame, use the `tabId` and `frameId` from the event details instead of relying on the "current tab". Specifying the target ensures your extension does not invoke an extension API on the wrong target when the "current tab" changes while waking the event page.
```

Author: I think we can retain the meaning with slightly fewer words
```suggestion
When responding to events in the context of a specific tab or frame, use the `tabId` and `frameId` from the event details instead of relying on the "current tab". Specifying the target ensures your extension does not invoke an extension API on the wrong target when the "current tab" changes while waking the event page.
```

I'm keeping "the context of". The event does not need to originate from a tab/frame. If the user clicks on an extension button to trigger `browserAction.onClicked`, then the event is not in that tab, but the tab is the relevant context.

### Record state changes

> As scripts now open and close as needed, do not rely on global variables, but use the storage API to set and return states and values:
> 
> - Use {{WebExtAPIRef("storage.session")}} for in-memory storage that is cleared when the extension or browser shuts down. By default, `storage.session` is only available to extension contexts and not to content scripts.
> - Use {{WebExtAPIRef("storage.local")}} for a larger storage area that persists across browser and extension restarts.
> 
> The use of a global variable is not recommended:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scripts now open and close as needed. So, do not rely on global variables.

```

```js bad-example
var count = 101;
browser.runtime.onMessage.addListener((message, sender, sendResponse) => {
  if (message === "count") {
    ++count;
    sendResponse(count);
  }
});
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Instead, use the storage API to set and return states and values:

- Use {{WebExtAPIRef("storage.session")}} for in-memory storage that is cleared when the extension or browser shuts down. By default, `storage.session` is only available to extension contexts and not to content scripts.
- Use {{WebExtAPIRef("storage.local")}} for a larger storage area that persists across browser and extension restarts.

```

```js
browser.runtime.onMessage.addListener(async (message, sender) => {
  if (message === "count") {
    let items = await browser.storage.session.get({ myStoredCount: 101 });
    let count = items.myStoredCount;
    ++count;
    await browser.storage.session.set({ myStoredCount: count });
    return count;
  }
});
```

> The above example [sends an asynchronous response using a promise](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/Runtime/onMessage#sending_an_asynchronous_response_using_a_promise), which is not supported in Chrome until [Chrome bug 1185241](https://crbug.com/1185241) is resolved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preceding example [sends an asynchronous response using a promise](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/Runtime/onMessage#sending_an_asynchronous_response_using_a_promise), which is not supported in Chrome until [Chrome bug 1185241](https://crbug.com/1185241) is resolved.
```

> A cross-browser alternative is to [return true and use sendResponse](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/Runtime/onMessage#sending_an_asynchronous_response_using_sendresponse).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A cross-browser alternative is to [return true and use `sendResponse`](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/Runtime/onMessage#sending_an_asynchronous_response_using_sendresponse).
```

```js
browser.runtime.onMessage.addListener((message, sender, sendResponse) => {
  if (message === "count") {
    browser.storage.session.get({ myStoredCount: 101 }).then(async (items) => {
      let count = items.myStoredCount;
      ++count;
      await browser.storage.session.set({ myStoredCount: count });
      sendResponse(count);
    });
    return true;
  }
});
```

### Change timers into alarms

> DOM-based timers such as {{domxref("setTimeout()")}} do not remain active after an event page has idled. Instead, use the {{WebExtAPIRef("alarms")}} API if you need a timer to wake an event page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DOM-based timers, such as {{domxref("setTimeout()")}}, do not remain active after an event page has idled. Instead, use the {{WebExtAPIRef("alarms")}} API if you need a timer to wake an event page.
```

### Update calls for background script functions

> Extensions commonly host their primary functionality in their background script. Some extensions access functions and variables defined in the background page through the <code>window</code> returned by {{WebExtAPIRef("extension.getBackgroundPage")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Extensions commonly host their primary functionality in the background script. Some extensions access functions and variables defined in the background page through the `window` returned by {{WebExtAPIRef("extension.getBackgroundPage")}}.
```

> The method can return `null` when extension pages are isolated, such as extension documents in Private Browsing mode or container tabs.
> With the use of event pages, a return value of `null` is even more likely, when the event page is not running.

Reviewer: Can we phrase this with a bit more certainty?
```suggestion
The method return `null` when:
- extension pages are isolated, such as extension documents in private browsing mode or container tabs.
- an event page is not running.
```

Author: The purpose of my previous phrasing was to highlight:

1. There were existing shortcomings with the API, even though the scenarios are relatively uncommon in simple testing.
2. When an extension enables event pages, the null value becomes much more likely.

Author: ```suggestion
The method returns `null` when:

 - extension pages are isolated, such as extension pages in Private Browsing mode or container tabs.
 - the background page is not running. This is uncommon with persistent background pages, but very likely when an Event Page is used, because these can be suspended during inactivity.
```

> **Note:** The recommended way to invoke functionality in the background script is to communicate with it through {{WebExtAPIRef("runtime.sendMessage","runtime.sendMessage()")}} or {{WebExtAPIRef("runtime.connect","runtime.connect()")}}.

> > The `getBackgroundPage()` methods discussed in this section cannot be used in a cross-browser extension, because Manifest Version 3 extensions in Chrome cannot use background pages or event pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The `getBackgroundPage()` methods discussed in this section cannot be used in a cross-browser extension, because Manifest Version 3 extensions in Chrome cannot use background or event pages.
```

### Update calls for background script functions

Extensions commonly host their primary functionality in the background script. Some extensions access functions and variables defined in the background page through the `window` returned by {{WebExtAPIRef("extension.getBackgroundPage")}}.
The method returns `null` when:

- extension pages are isolated, such as extension pages in Private Browsing mode or container tabs.

> - the background page is not running. This is uncommon with persistent background pages, but very likely when an Event Page is used, because these can be suspended during inactivity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the background page is not running. This is uncommon with persistent background pages but very likely when using an Event Page, as an Event Page can be suspended when inactivity.
```

Author: ```suggestion
- the background page is not running. This is uncommon with persistent background pages but very likely when using an Event Page, as an Event Page can be suspended.
```

I took the suggestion but deleted "when inactivity" because that didn't look like proper English. The alternative would be "when inactive", but that doesn't carry the same meaning.
